Clarify server status options (#320)
google/certificate-transparency-rfcs: draft-ietf-trans-rfc6962-bis.md

# TLS Servers {#tls_servers}

CT-using TLS servers MUST use at least one of the mechanisms described below
to present one or more SCTs from one or more logs to each TLS client during full
TLS handshakes, where each SCT corresponds to the server certificate. They
SHOULD also present corresponding inclusion proofs and STHs.

> The preferred mechanism is to use

Reviewer: Although it was certainly the original intent in CT's early years, I think we would need to find out if there's still consensus to describe this mechanism as "preferred".

a TLS 1.3 extension (Section 4.2 of [RFC8446]) with type `transparency_info`
(see {{tls_transinfo_extension}}). This mechanism allows TLS servers to
participate in CT without the cooperation of CAs, unlike the other two
mechanisms. It also allows SCTs and inclusion proofs to be updated on the fly.

> If the server supports TLS version 1.2 or earlier, it may use

Author: fixup commit pushed.

# TLS Servers {#tls_servers}

CT-using TLS servers MUST use at least one of the mechanisms described below
to present one or more SCTs from one or more logs to each TLS client during full
TLS handshakes, where each SCT corresponds to the server certificate. They
SHOULD also present corresponding inclusion proofs and STHs.

> A server can provide SCT's using

Reviewer: Nit: Drop the apostrophe.

a TLS 1.3 extension (Section 4.2 of [RFC8446]) with type `transparency_info`
(see {{tls_transinfo_extension}}). This mechanism allows TLS servers to
participate in CT without the cooperation of CAs, unlike the other two
mechanisms. It also allows SCTs and inclusion proofs to be updated on the fly.

> The server may also use an Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP)
> [RFC6960] response extension (see {{ocsp_transinfo_extension}}),
> popularly known as "OCSP stapling."
> For TLS
> 1.3, the information is encoded as an extension in the `status_request`

Reviewer 2: Perhaps:

```suggestion
The server may also use an Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP)
[RFC6960] response extension (see {{ocsp_transinfo_extension}}),
providing the OCSP response as part of the TLS handshake. Providing
a response during a TLS handshake is popularly known as "OCSP stapling."
For TLS
1.3, the information is encoded as an extension in the `status_request`
```

The area of concern here is two-fold:
1. It reads that "OCSP stapling" is the act of using OCSP response extensions - rather than providing an OCSP response itself.
2. "The information is encoded" continues the ambiguity, by implying it's the extension data that's provided in these paths, rather than the response.

I'm not sold on the wording I suggested, so feel free to reject/editorialize at will, but I wanted to flag that ambiguity. In the original language, "This mechanism" naturally followed the "TLS client included the `status_request` extension", so was less ambiguous (but still slightly so)

Author: I took your suggestion, and also changed "This mechanism also..." at the end of the paragraph to be "Using stapling also ..."

> extension data; see Section 4.4.2.1 of [RFC8446] For TLS 1.2, the information

Reviewer: Missing full stop before "For TLS 1.2,"

is encoded as an extension in the `CertificateStatus` message; see Section 8

> of [RFC6066]).  This mechanism also

Reviewer: ")" without a corresponding "(".

allows SCTs and inclusion proofs to be updated on the fly.

> For off-line use,

Reviewer 3: "For off-line use" should be dropped as it implies that this mechanism is unsuitable or less preferred when the server is online, but I don't think this is supported by implementation experience.

Author: I removed "for off-line use" and tweaked the first sentence; additional commit pushed.

(see {{cert_transinfo_extension}}). This
mechanism allows the use of unmodified TLS servers, but the SCTs and inclusion
proofs cannot be updated on the fly. Since the logs from which the SCTs and
inclusion proofs originated won't necessarily be accepted by TLS clients for

> the full lifetime of the certificate, there is a risk that TLS clients will
> subsequently consider the certificate to be non-compliant and in need of
> re-issuance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the full lifetime of the certificate, there is a risk that TLS clients may
subsequently consider the certificate to be non-compliant and in need of
re-issuance or the use of one of the other two methods for delivering CT
information.
```

I'm not sure the will/may is strictly necessary, but mostly it reflects the fact that we haven't (yet) had this situation play out, but it is a valid concern.

The other part is explicitly clarifying that the alternative methods may be sufficient to avoid reissuance. Reissuance is unambiguously the preferred path for the Web PKI (in the principle of GREASE, it's the well-greased path), but perhaps its useful to clarify that the other two methods exist in part to offer an alternative to that (since the state of the art in 2011/2012 wasn't as hopeful)
